.\"    Title: pbr
.\"   Auther: [see the "AUTHORS" section]
.\"     Date: 02/03/2021
.\" Language: English
.\"
.TH pbr.conf 5 "02/03/2021" " " "Plan B Recovery"
.SH NAME
pbr.conf \- configuration file for pbr
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI/etc/pbr/pbr.conf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpbr.conf\fR is loaded during the initialization phase of pbr. Certain command line parameters will override
values set here.
.sp
\fBlog_verbosity =\fR info
.RS 4
Set the logging level for the log file, the logging level of the console is controlled by the verbosity command
line parameter. Valid values are \fIinfo\fR, \fIdebug\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBtmp_dir =\fR /tmp
.RS 4
This directory is where the temporary working folder will be created under, it needs to have enough free space to
contain the files needed to create the bootable iso.
.RE
.PP
\fBboot_type =\fR iso
.RS 4
Sets the boot media type. Valid values are \fIiso\fR and \fIusb\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_location_type =\fR nfs
.RS 4
Sets the backup location type, basically the method used to store or transfer the backup to and from the server.
Valid values are \fInfs\fR, \fIcifs\fR, \fIrsync\fR, and \fIusb\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_mount =\fR example.com:/nfs-export
.RS 4
The mountable device, path or user@host if using RSYNC.

\fBExamples:\fR
.RS 4
NFS: example.com:/nfs-export
.br
CIFS: //example.com/cifs-share
.br
RSYNC: user@example.com:/rsync-path.
.br
USB: /dev/disk/by-label/PLANBRECOVER-USB
.RE
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_mount_opts =\fR <mount opts>
.RS 4
Mount options to use when mounting \fBbackup_mount\fR, this is useful for nfs and cifs mounts mostly.
\fBExample:\fR quest vers=3
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_archive_prefix =\fR backup
.RS 4
Set the prefix name of the outputted backup archive file.
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_exclude_paths =\fR /var/crash /tmp/
.RS 4
Add any path that you would like excluded from the backup archive. Be mindful this is a recursive exclude, so any sub
directories will be excluded also. The format is /path space /path, don't add quotes or end with a slash please.
Also this doesn't exclude the underlying lvm or disk, you will need to set those in \fBbackup_exclude_vgs\fR and
\fBbackup_exclude_disks\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBnum_of_old_backups =\fR 3
.RS 4
The maximum number of old backups to keep, each backup will have the data appended to the name.
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_exclude_vgs =\fR example_vg data_vg
.RS 4
List of volume groups to exclude from the backup, this will also remove any pv and mount point restoration being set
in the backup files. This will not exclude data from mount points of this volume group from the backup archive or rsync,
those paths would need to be added above to \fBbackup_exclude_paths\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBbackup_exclude_disks =\fR /dev/sdX /dev/vdX
.RS 4
Setting this will exclude the disk from the back up data meaning it will also be excluded from the recovery also.
This will also add any vgs that this disk is a pv of to the exclude_vgs list above. So be warned, if the vg or disk
are set to mount in the fstab file, setting this will cause the server not to boot if the fstab isn't corrected after
recovery is finished.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_iso_prefix =\fR recover
.RS 4
Set the prefix name of the outputted recover iso file.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_include_pkgs =\fR strace iscsi\-initiator\-utils
.RS 4
List any additional packages that might be needed in the recover environment, so they be included in the bootable
iso's rootfs.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_include_files =\fR /etc/example/example.conf /usr/local/bin/example.sh
.RS 4
Add additional file(s) to the recovery environment.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_exclude_vgs =\fR example_vg data_vg
.RS 4
List of volume groups to exclude from the recovery, this will also remove any mount points set to use the volume group.
You will need to exclude the pv disk below if you don't want it re-partitioned.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_exclude_disks =\fR /dev/sdX /dev/vdX
.RS 4
Setting this will exclude any disk that were captured in the backup, but you don't want that storage layout restored.
The disk below should be the disk name mentioned in /facts/disk.json, not a name of of a disk in the recovery
environment. Also this will only remove entries from the stored backup disks and the backup mounts, it will not exclude
any vgs. You will need to add the vg to the \fBexclude_vgs\fR also, you've been warned!
.RE
.PP
\fBrecover_post_script =\fR /usr/local/bin/example.sh
.RS 4
Specify any script(s) that will execute after the recovery has finished, the recovered system will be mounted on
/mnt/rootfs. Unless the script is part of a package, it will need to be added to the recover_include_files option to
add the script to the recovery environment. This option isn't for individual commands, this is a space separated list
of scripts not commands.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecovery_kernel_args =\fR console=tty0 console=ttyS0,115200 systemd.debug-shell=1
.RS 4
Add any kernel args that you would like added to the bootable iso's kernel cmdline.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecovery_enable_sshd =\fR 1
.RS 4
Set to 1 to enable sshd to start in the iso environment and 0 to disable it.
.RE
.PP
\fBrecovery_keep_root_password =\fR 0
.RS 4
Set to 0 to set the iso environment's root passwd to empty, if set to 1 or higher it will use the root passwd of the
server for the iso environment root user.
.SH AUTHOR
Ryan Blakley (rblakley@redhat.com)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBpbr\fR(8)